.\" -*- nroff -*-
.ds g \" empty
.ds G \" empty
.de Tp
.ie \\n(.$=0:((0\\$1)*2u>(\\n(.1u-\\n(.iu)) .TP
.el .TP "\\$1"
..
.TH PCA-ELLIPSOIDS 1 "13 Jul 2015" "pca-utils version 20150713"
.SH NAME
pca-ellipsoids \- build 3D scores plots with confidence ellipsoids from scores
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pca-ellipsoids
[
.B \-h
]
.LP
.B pca-ellipsoids
\-i \fIINFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Build a scores plot from PCA/PLS scores in \fBINFILE\fR. The 95% confidence
ellipsoids are written to a text file that contains \fBgnuplot\fR-readable
commands for plotting the scores with ellipsoids. The output script can be
directly loaded (using the \fBload\fR command) into \fBgnuplot\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB-\-help\fR
display a short help message.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-input\fR \fIINFILE\fR
scores list input file, formatted according to the list file exported from
Umetrics SIMCA-P+ software. See pca-rand(1) for more information.
.TP
\fB\-1\fR, \fB\-\-component1\fR \fIPC1\fR
percentage contribution of the total variance from principal component number
one, for use with PCA scores plots.
.TP
\fB\-2\fR, \fB\-\-component2\fR \fIPC2\fR
percentage contribution of the total variance from principal component number
two, for use with PCA scores plots.
.TP
\fB\-3\fR, \fB\-\-component3\fR \fIPC3\fR
percentage contribution of the total variance from principal component number
three, for use with PCA scores plots.
.SH AUTHOR
Bradley Worley <geekysuavo@gmail.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2015 Bradley Worley.
.br
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pca-bootstrap(1),
.BR pca-dendrogram(1),
.BR pca-distances(1),
.BR pca-ellipses(1),
.BR pca-overlap(1),
.BR pca-stats(1),
.BR pca-rand(1),
.BR pca-maps(1)
