.\" -*- nroff -*-
.ds g \" empty
.ds G \" empty
.de Tp
.ie \\n(.$=0:((0\\$1)*2u>(\\n(.1u-\\n(.iu)) .TP
.el .TP "\\$1"
..
.TH PCA-RAND 1 "13 Jul 2015" "pca-utils version 20150713"
.SH NAME
pca-rand \- generate scores data from pseudorandom numbers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pca-rand
[
.B \-h
]
.LP
.B pca-rand
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Prints scores for a single group using values drawn from a bivariate normal
pseudorandom number generator. The resulting points can then be scaled,
rotated and translated at will. It's worthy of mention that the output
of this program is capable of being directly read into the rest of the
programs in pca-utils. See below for format information.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB-\-help\fR
display a short help message.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-count\fR \fICOUNT\fR
number of data points to generate.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-label\fR \fILABEL\fR
name to assign to the group of points.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-header\fR
print a file header as the first line written to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-mean\fR (\fIU1\fR,\fIU2\fR)
center the group at \fIU1\fR,\fIU2\fR.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-var\fR (\fIV1\fR,\fIV2\fR)
give the group variances of \fIV1\fR and \fIV2\fR.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-rotation\fR \fITHETA\fR
rotate the group of points by \fITHETA\fR degrees.
.SH FORMATTING
.PP
The pca-utils programs read in text files that have been formatted to match
exported list files from Umetrics SIMCA-P+ software. However, you're not
locked into SIMCA if you choose to use pca-utils. The pca-rand(1) utility
is evidence of that. At its core, the format requirements are tab-delimited
fields with no quotes. The first column is the row number, and totally
discarded in the pca-utils programs. The second is the group name, used by
pca-utils to assign points to groups. All remaining columns must be scores
data columns.
.PP
A header is required at the first line of the input file. For an example
header for 2D pca scores, use pca-rand(1) with the \fB\-\-header\fR option.
.SH AUTHOR
Bradley Worley <geekysuavo@gmail.com>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2015 Bradley Worley.
.br
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pca-bootstrap(1),
.BR pca-dendrogram(1),
.BR pca-distances(1),
.BR pca-ellipses(1),
.BR pca-ellipsoids(1),
.BR pca-overlap(1),
.BR pca-stats(1),
.BR pca-maps(1)
